The Formula for Victory

Don't fight your problem. Your problem will only live as long as you are aware of it. Take your attention off your problems and the multitude of reasons why you cannot reach your ideal. Focus your attention completely on what you desire. "Leave everything and follow me." In the face of seemingly insurmountable obstacles, claim your freedom. The awareness of freedom is the father of liberty. It has a way of expressing itself that no man knows. You don't need to fight in this battle. Take your place, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord with you (1 Chronicles 20:17).

I am the Lord, I am your conscience is the Lord. The awareness that the matter is settled and the work is finished is the Lord of any situation. Listen carefully to the promise: You don't need to fight in this battle; take your place, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord with you. With you, that particular conscience with which you are identified is the Lord of the agreement. He, without help, will establish what has been agreed upon on earth. Can you, faced with the army of reasons why something cannot be done, silently enter into an agreement with the Lord that it is done? Can you, now that you have found that the Lord is your consciousness of being, become aware that the battle is won?

No matter how near and threatening the enemy may seem, can you remain in your confidence, stay still knowing that victory is yours?

If you can, you will see the Lord's salvation.

Remember, the reward is for the one who endures. Remain still in the deep conviction that all is well, that it is done. No matter what you hear or see, you remain motionless, aware of being victorious in the end. Things are done by such agreements, and without such agreements, nothing that was done has been done.

All that is required of you, who seek change, is to rise to the level of that which is desired, without getting bogged down in the form of expression. He affirms that it is done, feeling the naturalness of it. Don't ask for help from man, feel it: it is done.

