How to Express Change in Your World
You and your concept of yourself are one. You will always be greater than any conception you have of yourself. Man fails to accomplish his goals because he tries to do so from his current level of consciousness. Your current level of consciousness expresses your current limitations, and from that level, it is impossible to express your desire. Desire is an acknowledgment of your current lack; if you desire something, it is because you do not have it in the present; otherwise, you would not desire it.

You will never transcend your current achievements through sacrifice and struggle in the visible world because it is the world of effects, not of causes. Your current level of consciousness will only be transcended as you release the present state and ascend to a higher level—a level in which you identify with your desire already fulfilled, already expressed in your world. Although at first your reason and senses may deny your assumption (because they express your current level), if you persist and claim the fulfillment of your desire as your own, withdrawing your attention from your current level and its limitations, you will end up expressing the new state of consciousness without physical effort. You will see your desire express itself as a reality because the new state of consciousness contains the fulfillment of your desire and all the plans for its expression in the visible world.

You ascend to a higher level of consciousness by withdrawing your attention from your current limitations and placing it on what you wish to be. Claim to be what you desire: "I am that!" without sacrifices, without diets, without human tricks. All that is asked of you is that you accept your desires. If you dare to claim it, you will express it.

The work is done. All that is required of you to let these qualities express themselves is that you proclaim: "I am that!" feeling yourself to be the desired thing, feeling and enjoying your already fulfilled desire. "Leave everything and follow me" (Matthew 19:21) is a twofold invitation. First, it invites you to turn completely away from all your problems, and then it asks you to continue walking in the affirmation that you are what you desire to be.






