Quote from the Conference WHAT ARE YOU DOING? 10/30/1967
Many times I have heard someone say: “I believe that imagining creates reality, but I once imagined something and it never happened.” Then I ask, “What are you doing, saying, 'I once imagined it,' and not imagining it now?” For the name of God is I Am, not I Made! Always thinking of God as someone outside himself, man finds it difficult to maintain tense, but God is the human imagination and there is no other God.

When you imagine you can include others, but don't think in terms of influence. Rather, think only in terms of clarity of form.

Maybe a friend would like a better job, more money, and more responsibility. Before you imagine, take a moment and clarify the form your imaginative act will take. Are you throwing the celebration party or is he? Who will be there? Fill the room with those you would want to share the celebration with. Raise your glass and say, “To your fabulous new job, your raise, and the challenge of your greater responsibility!” Don't think in terms of trying to influence your friend's boss, or he could die or be fired. Just go to the end. Toast the event, and don't think about influencing others.

The law, to be effective, needs sensation with form. Build a structure that would imply that your desire is already fulfilled, and enter its form with the sensation. You don't have to be worried about influencing others, as they are not the cause – your imaginary act is! Those who have a billion dollars are not causing your world. You and only you are doing it, since your imaginary actions influence people. Everyone is your externalized self, so when you imagine, you are influencing yourself!

Knowing what you want, place your attention on its clarity of form, and then see what you are imagining. Are you remembering when you imagined something greater than what you have? If so, you are confessing that you are not now imagining your wish fulfilled. If imagining creates reality, you must change your memory and become aware of what you are imagining right now.



Quote from Lecture WHAT ARE YOU DOING 10/30/1967
Translated by Manu LDA
